In this video we will explore
another fundamental property
of graphs called Connectivity.
We list two important kinds
of graph analytic questions
that are based on connectivity.
In the first case we are asking
about the robustness of the network.
Suppose we have a computer
network with many servers and
a hacker is trying to
bring the system down,
you set a small set of servers that the
hacker can target to disrupt the network.
What we mean by disrupt is to disconnect
a part of the network from the rest.
A similar problem may occur in
the power distribution network.
In that case, an attacker may be able to
attack one or two central components so
that large portions of
the network loses power.
I have a geneticist colleague at
Tech Graduate Institute who studied
the robustness of biological networks.
He told me that many biological
networks have built in redundancy, so
that even if you disrupt one important
gene, there are other genes in the network
which will support the biological
function, possibly through other routes.
Therefore a network is robust,
if removing one or
more edges or
nodes still keeps it connected.
The second category is about network
comparison in terms of their
overall connectivity.
The two graphs shown here are very
different in their structure.
What are some parameters by
which we can compare them?
That to talk about connectivity, we must
first define the concept of connectivity.
Very simple.
A graph is connected if we can
reach any node from any other node.
Let's look at the crypto graph in
the picture, clearly we cannot
reach from all nodes to all nodes here
because this graph is not connected.
However, we can identify four parts of
the graph that are themselves connected.
These islands of connected
parts are called components or
connected components of a graph.
For directed graphs, we need to be
a little more specific about connectivity.
We say that the directed graph is strongly
connected, if we follow the direction of
the edges and still reach every
node from every other node.
A weaker form of connectivity is if we do
not care about the direction of the arrows
and can reach every node
from every other node.
Another way of saying it is that
the undirected version of the graph
is connected,
this is called Weak Connected.
Look at the graph that we have seen so
many times in this course.
Is it strongly connected or
weakly connected?
This leads to some big graph challenge.
Given an arbitrarily large graph,
can I find the connected components
of the graph efficiently?
Second given an arbitrarily large graph,
can we find its sub graphs
that are strongly connected?
We'll touch upon these
questions in Module Four.